# Freezing Statistical Analysis
This repository contains statistical analysis and associated data on freezing behavior, a critical component of my thesis research. Freezing behavior analysis provides insights into stress responses, learning, memory, and behavioral adaptation under different conditions. This specific project aimed to examine the effects of early life stress, as seen in [Brydges et al. 2014](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/hipo.22259).

# TODO 
- Make the data wrangling functions into a package for easier / more succinct use. Functions which I will use a lot have Roxygen comments already to make this process easier.
- I would like to produce an R markdown file that can be used to generate a report. I can then pull from my library the required
functions and data.
- I perhaps should have used a renv file. When I started this project I didnt know about renv. It looks like this would make library import more reproducible.
- With more time, I would love to add testing for this. I have no unit coverage at all so far :( 

## Features and Analyses
- **Data Preprocessing**: Cleaning and structuring raw behavioural freezing count data for analysis.
- **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)**: Visualizations and initial insights to understand the distribution and characteristics of the data.
- **Statistical Models (inferential analysis)**: Application of ANOVAs and linear models to test hypotheses about freezing behavior.
- **Data Visualization**: Line charts, bar plots, and error bars to illustrate findings.

## Repository Structure
- `data/`: Contains raw and processed data files used in the analysis.
- `scripts/`: R scripts for data cleaning, analysis, and visualisation.
- `results/`: Output files and figures generated by the analysis scripts.
- `docs/`: Documentation files, including experiment design and published thesis copy [TODO add this]. 

## Preliminary Results
- Results show that there are effects of ELS and these are sex specific.

## This Repo is possible due to the helpful colaboration of individuals within Hadyn Ellis Building, Cardiff. 
